## How to download files

we can do it with wget command

```bash
wget https://assets.tryhackme.com/additional/linux-fundamentals/part3/myfile.txt
```
---

## Transferring Files From Your Host - SCP (SSH)

- Secure copy, or SCP, is just that -- a means of securely copying files. Unlike the regular cp command, this command allows you to transfer files between two computers using the SSH protocol to provide both authentication and encryption.

-   Copy files & directories from your current system to a remote system
-   Copy files & directories from a remote system to your current system

for copy using SSH we need to know this basic step

1st   -->     The IP address of the remote system    -->                                            192.168.1.30
2nd -->     User on the remote system                           -->                                       ubuntu
3rd  -->     Name of the file on the local system                 -->                                 important.txt
4th  -->     Name that we wish to store the file as on the remote system     -->     important.txt

```bash
scp important.txt ubuntu@192.168.1.30:/home/ubuntu/transferred.txt

```

And now let's reverse this and layout the syntax for using `scp`to copy a file from a remote computer that we're not logged into


1st   -->     The IP address of the remote system      -->                                          192.168.1.30
2nd -->     User on the remote system                       -->                                          ubuntu
3rd  -->     Name of the file on the remote system                   -->                       documents.txt
4th  -->     Name that we wish to store the file as on our system         -->             notes.txt

```bash
scp ubuntu@192.168.1.30:/home/ubuntu/documents.txt notes.txt
```

## **Serving Files From Your Host - WEB**

Ubuntu machines come pre-packaged with python3. Python helpfully provides a lightweight and easy-to-use module called "HTTPServer". This module turns your computer into a quick and easy web server that you can use to serve your own files, where they can then be downloaded by another computing using commands such as `curl`and `wget`. 

Python3's "HTTPServer" will serve the files in the directory that you run the command, but this can be changed by providing options that can be found in the manual pages. Simply, all we need to do is run `python3 -m  http.server` to start the module! In the screenshot below, we are serving from a directory called "webserver", which has a single named "file".

```bash
python3 -m http.server

Serving HTTP on 0.0.0.0 port 8000 (http://0.0.0.0:8000/) ...
```

Now, let's use `wget`to download the file using the computer's IP address and the name of the file. One flaw with this module is that you have no way of indexing, so you must know the exact name and location of the file that you wish to use. This is why I prefer to use Updog. [What's Updog](https://github.com/sc0tfree/updog)? A more advanced yet lightweight webserver. But for now, let's stick to using Python's "HTTP Server".

