- ### GITLAB Backup And Restore
	- GitLab has a built-in back up component that can create a complete archive of your installation’s data. The archive can be restored a fresh server running the same GitLab version.
	- You can only restore a backup to **exactly the same version and type (CE/EE)** of GitLab on which it was created. The best way to migrate your projects from one server to another is through a backup and restore.


### Back up GitLab
- GitLab provides a command line interface to back up your entire instance, including:
	-   Database
	-   Attachments
	-   Git repositories data
	-   CI/CD job output logs
	-   CI/CD job artifacts
	-   LFS objects
	-   Terraform states 
	-   Container Registry images
	-   GitLab Pages content
	-   Packages 
	-   Snippets
- Backups do not include:
	-   Mattermost data
	-   Redis (and thus Sidekiq jobs)
	- GitLab does not back up any configuration files (/etc/gitlab), TLS keys and certificates, or system files.

## How to BackUP ad Restore Gitlab server 

- #### Step's 
	- 1. Create Backup 
	- 2. Move Backup To another Server
	- 3. and apply Backup

#### Create BackUP
-  First Install rsync
```bash
sudo apt-get install rsync
```
- Then Create BackUP of Existing Data. By Using this command
```bash
sudo gitlab-backup create
```

```bash
sudo gitlab-ctl backup-etc
```

- Now Backup is Generated at  /var/opt/gitlab/backups/ 
- Gitlab Config file location /etc/gitlab/
- Also take gitlab.rb and gitlab-secrets.json. 

### Move Backup To another Server
- Now Move the Backup To Another Server. By using Secure Copy
```bash
scp ubuntu@192.168.1.30:/home/ubuntu/documents.txt notes.txt
```
1st   -->     The IP address of the remote system                     -->           192.168.1.30
2nd -->     User on the remote system                                      -->           ubuntu
3rd  -->     Name of the file on the remote system                   -->           documents.txt
4th  -->     Name that we wish to store the file as on our system   -->  notes.txt

- Move Backup to /var/opt/gitlab/backups/
- Assign Owner ship. By using this Command
```bash
sudo chown git.git /var/opt/gitlab/backups/filename
```

### Apply BackUP
- First Stops Service of 
```bash
sudo gitlab-ctl stop  puma
```

```bash
sudo gitlab-ctl stop unicorn
```

```bash
sudo gitlab-ctl stop sidekiq
```


- Restore gitlab.rb and gitlab-secret.json file
- and Then apply BackUP
```bash
sudo gitlab-backup restore BACKUP=filename
```

- After backup restore start service which we have stoped

```bash
sudo gitlab-ctl start puma
```

```bash
sudo gitlab-ctl start unicorn
```

```bash
sudo gitlab-ctl start sidekiq
```

- and Then Reconfigure again
```bash
sudo gitlab-ctl reconfigure
```

- Now start the Gitlab
```bash
sudo gitlab-ctt start
```

- and run this command
```bash
sudo gitlab-rake gitlab:check SANITIZE:true
```

Done after 10-15 Min. we can see the login page in browser

